<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:ui="jakarta.faces.facelets">
<ui:composition template="/layout.xhtml">
    <ui:define name="content">
        <h1>Publications</h1>
        <h2>Patent</h2>
        <ol>
            <li>No. 20428, A Method for Detecting Harmful Domain Names, Vietnam Ministry of Science and Technology, 2019</li>
        </ol>
	<h2>Preprints in Review</h2>
	<ul>
	  <li>Enhancing Dependency Parsing with Graph Neural Network-Learned Embeddings from Universal Dependency Treebanks</li>
	  <li>A Semantics-aware Head-driven Approach for Multilingual Dependency Parsing</li>
	  <li>A Cost-Efficient and High-Performance Framework for Diagnosing Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma</li>
	  <li>Using Cytopathological Microscopic Images for Diagnosing Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma</li>
	  <li>Skillful Subseasonal-to-Seasonal Prediction of Heavy Precipitation Events across Northern Vietnam using Dual Encoder Neural Networks</li>
	</ul>
        <h2>Refereed research papers in journals</h2>
        <ol>
            <li>P. Le-Hong and E. Cambria, <i>Integrating graph embedding and neural models for improving transition-based dependency parsing</i>, <a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00521-023-09223-3">Neural Computing and Applications</a>, vol. 36, pp. 2999-3016, 2024.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong and E. Cambria, <i>A semantics-aware approach for multilingual natural language inference</i>, <a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10579-023-09635-6">Language Resources and Evaluation</a>, vol. 57, pp. 611-639, 2023.</li>
            <li>O. T. Tran, P. Le-Hong, C. T. Luong, <i>A rich task-oriented dialogue corpus in Vietnamese</i>, <a href="https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10579-022-09618-z">Language Resources and Evaluation</a>, vol. 57, pp. 1767-1786, 2023.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, <i>Diacritics generation and application in hate speech detection on Vietnamese social networks</i>, <a href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0950705121007668">Knowledge-Based Systems</a>, vol. 233, 2021.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, H. V. Dang, <i>A combined syntactic-semantic embedding model based on lexicalized tree-adjoining grammar</i>, <a href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0885230821000097">Computer Speech and Language</a>, vol. 68, 2021.</li>
            <li>T. L. Nguyen, M. L. Ha, T. M. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, <i>Using BiLSTM in dependency parsing for Vietnamese</i>, <a href="https://www.cys.cic.ipn.mx/ojs/index.php/CyS/article/view/3023">Computacion y Sistemas</a>, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 853-862, 2018.</li>
            <li>T. H. Pham, P. Le-Hong, <i>Content-based approach for Vietnamese spam SMS filtering</i>, <a href="https://www.worldscientific.com/worldscinet/ijalp">International Journal of Asian Language Processing</a>, vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 33-45, 2017.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. H Pham, X. K Pham, T. M. H. Nguyen, T. L. Nguyen, M. H. Nguyen, <i>Vietnamese semantic role labeling</i>, <a href="https://jcsce.vnu.edu.vn/index.php/jcsce/article/view/166">VNU Journal of Science: Computer Science and Communication Engineering</a>, vol. 33, no. 2, pp. 39-58, 2017.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, A. Roussanaly, T. M. H. Nguyen, <i>A syntactic component for Vietnamese language processing</i>, <a href="https://jlm.ipipan.waw.pl/index.php/JLM/article/view/89">Journal of Language Modelling</a>, vol. 3, issue 1, pp. 145-184, June 2015.</li>
            <li>T. H. Phan, T. M. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, A. Kilgarriff, <i>Lexicographic study in Sketch Engine</i>, <a href="https://vjs.ac.vn/index.php/jcc/article/view/481">Journal of Computer Science and Cybernetics</a>, vol. 27, issue 3, no. 3, pp. 206-217, 2011.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, P. T. Nguyen, T. H. Phan, <i>Automated extraction of tree-adjoining grammars from a treebank for Vietnamese</i>, <a href="https://vjs.ac.vn/index.php/jcc/article/view/539">Journal of Computer Science and Cybernetics</a>, vol. 26, issue 2, no. 2, pp. 153-172, 2010.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, V. H. Nguyen, D. Q. Tong, <i>Simulating the flow of natural water running into Hoa Binh, Son La, Lai Chau reservoirs</i>, Vietnam Journal of Mathematical Applications, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 47-56, 2008.</li>
            <li>M. N. Tran, P. Le-Hong, Q. H. Vuong, V. H. Nguyen G. H. Dang, <i>Statistical methods in development of credit scoring system</i>, Vietnam Journal of Mathematical Applications, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 1-16, 2006.</li>
            <li>V. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, <i>On the testing of the negative binomial distribution of the number of earthquakes in the South-East Asia area</i>, Vietnam Journal of Mathematical Applications, no. ?, pp. ?, 2005.</li>
        </ol>
        <h2>Refereed research papers in international conference proceedings</h2>
        <ol>
            <li>T. Q. Ngo, T. A. P. Nguyen, M. L. Ha, T. M. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/2024.vardial-1.21/">Improving Multi-label Classification of Similar Languages by Semantics-Aware Word Embeddings</a>, Proceedings of VarDial, Mexico City, Mexico, 2024</li>
            <li>T. Q. Ngo, D. D. Do, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://repository.nii.ac.jp/records/2001294">VLP Methods at the MedNLP-SC Social Media Adverse Drug Event Detection of NTCIR-17</a>, Proceedings of NTCIR-17, Tokyo Japan, 2023</li>
            <li>H. Y. Vu, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-41456-5_18">A Context-Aware Approach for Improving Dialog Act Detection in a Multilingual Conversational Platform</a>, Proceedings of Computational Collective Intelligence and Natural Language Processing, Budapest, Hungary, 2023</li>
	    <li> P. Le-Hong, T. Q. Ngo,
	    T. M. H. Nguyen, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/2023.nlp4call-1.5/">Two
	    Neural Models for Multilingual Grammatical Error Detection</a>,
	    Proceedings of the 12th Workshop on NLP for Computer Assisted
	    Language Learning, Tórshavn, Faroe Islands, 2023</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. T. L. Nguyen, M. T. Pham, T. H. Vu, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9953794/">Multilingual Natural Language Understanding for the FPT.AI Conversational Platform</a>, Proceedings of the 14th IEEE International Conference on Knowledge and Systems Engineering, 2022</li>
            <li>T. V. Bui, O. T. Tran, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/2020.paclic-1.2/">Improving Sequence Tagging for Vietnamese Text using Transformer-based Neural Models</a>, Proceedings of PACLIC, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2020</li>
            <li>T. V. Bui, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://research.nii.ac.jp/ntcir/workshop/OnlineProceedings15/NTCIR/toc_ntcir.html#SHINRA">Cross-lingual Extended Named Entity Classification of Wikipedia Articles</a>, Proceedings of NTCIR-15, SHINRA2020-ML, Tokyo, Japan, 2020</li>
            <li>C. T. Luong, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-15-6168-9_22">Towards Task-Oriented Dialogue in Mixed Domains</a>, Proceedings of PACLING, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2019</li>
            <li>T. L. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-15-6168-9_30">An Experimental Study on Constituency Parsing for Vietnamese</a>, Proceedings of PACLING, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2019</li>
            <li>H. V. Dang, V. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-19738-4_17">Online Adaptation of Language Models for Speech Recognition</a>, Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Computer Recognition Systems", Polanica Zdroj, Poland, 2019</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, Anh-Cuong Le, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8606879">A Comparative Study of Neural Network Models for Sentence Classification</a>, Proceedings of the 5th Nafosted Conference on Information and Computer Science, Ho Chi Minh City, 2018</li>
            <li>T. T. Nguyen, X. L. Vu, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8606863">Building Vietnamese Linguistic Resources for Social Network Text Analysis</a>, Proceedings of the 5th Nafosted Conference on Information and Computer Science, Ho Chi Minh City, 2018</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, D-T. Bui, <a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3184558.3191535">A Factoid Question Answering System for Vietnamese</a>, Proceedings of the Web Conference (ACM), Lyon, France, 2018</li>
            <li>T. H. Pham, X. K. Pham, T. A. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/I17-3010/">NNVLP: A Neural Network-Based Vietnamese Language Processing Toolkit</a>, The 8th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (IJCNLP 2017), Taipei, Taiwan, 2017</li>
            <li>T. H. Pham, X. K. Pham, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8300596">On the Use of Machine Translation-Based Approaches for Vietnamese Diacritic Restoration</a>, The 21st International Conference on Asian Language Processing (IALP 2017), Singapore, 2017</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, Q. N. M. Pham, T. H. Pham, T. A. Tran, D. M. Nguyen, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8119440">An Empirical Study of Discriminative Sequence Labeling Models for Vietnamese Text Processing</a>, Knowledge and Systems Engineering, Hue City, Vietnam, 2017</li>
            <li>T. H. Pham, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-10-8438-6_18">End-to-end Recurrent Neural Network Models for Vietnamese Named Entity Recognition: Word-level vs. Character-level</a>, Proceedings of PACLING, Yangon, Myanmar, 2017</li>
            <li>T. H. Pham, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/Y17-1016/">The Importance of Automatic Syntactic Features in Vietnamese Named Entity Recognition</a>, The 31st PACLIC, Cebu, Philippines, 2017</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.05652">Vietnamese Named Entity Recognition using Token Regular Expressions and Bidirectional Inference</a>, Vietnamese Language and Speech Processing Evaluation Campaign, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2016</li>
            <li>T. H. Pham, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7875930">Content-based Approach for Vietnamese Spam SMS Filtering</a>, The 20th International Conference on Asian Language Processing, Tainan, Taiwan, 2016</li>
            <li>T. H. Pham, X. K. Pham, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7381877">Building a Semantic Role Labelling System for Vietnamese</a>, Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Digital Information Management, Jeju Islands, South Korea, 2015</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, T. L. Nguyen, M. L. Ha, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-25660-3_22">Fast Dependency Parsing using Distributed Word Representations</a>, Proceedings of PAKDD 2015 Workshops, Trends and Applications in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, HCM City, Vietnam, 2015</li>
            <li>M. C. Vu, A. T. Luong, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2833258.2833296">Improving Vietnamese Dependency Parsing using Distributed Word Representations</a>, The 6th International Symposium on Information and Communication Technology, Hue, Vietnam, 2015</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, X. H. Phan, T. D. Nguyen, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-11680-8_52">Using Dependency Analysis to Improve Question Classification</a>, The 6th International Conference on Knowledge and Systems Engineering, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2014</li>
            <li>T. L. Nguyen, M. L. Ha, V. H. Nguyen, T. M. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6719884">Building a Treebank for Vietnamese Dependency Parsing</a>, The 10th IEEE RIVF International Conference on Computing and Communication Technologies, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2013</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, X. H. Phan, T. T. Tran, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6719875">On the Effect of the Label Bias Problem in Part-of-Speech Tagging</a>, The 10th IEEE RIVF International Conference on Computing and Communication Technologies, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2013</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-02821-7_24">Part-of-Speech Induction for Vietnamese</a>, The 5th International Conference on Knowledge and Systems Engineering, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2013</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, A. Roussanaly, <a href="https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6169832">Vietnamese Parsing with an Automatically Extracted Tree-Adjoining Grammar</a>, Proceedings of IEEE-RIVF, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, 2012</li>
            <li>A. Kilgarriff, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://www.sketchengine.eu/wp-content/uploads/Vietnamese_word_sketches_2012.pdf">Vietnamese Word Sketches</a>, Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Vietnamese Language and Speech Processing, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, 2012</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, P. T. Nguyen, A. Roussanaly, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/W10-4421.pdf">Automated Extraction of Tree-Adjoining Grammars from a Treebank for Vietnamese</a>, Proceedings of The 10th International Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammars and Related Formalisms (TAG+10), Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA, 2010</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, A. Roussanaly, T. M. H. Nguyen, M. Rossignol, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/2010.jeptalnrecital-long.36/">An Empirical Study of Maximum Entropy Approach for Part-of-Speech Tagging of Vietnamese Texts</a>, Actes du Traitement Automatique des Langues Naturelles (TALN-2010), Montreal, Canada, 2010</li>
            <li>P. T. Nguyen, X. L. Vu, T. M. H. Nguyen, V. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/W09-3035/">Building a Large Syntactically-Annotated Corpus of Vietnamese</a>, Proceedings of the 3rd Linguistic Annotation Workshop, Suntec City, Singapore, 2009</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, A. Roussanaly, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/W09-3409/">Finite-State Description of Vietnamese Reduplication</a>, Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP, Suntec City, Singapore, 2009</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, A. Roussanaly, T. V. Ho, <a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-88282-4_23">A Hybrid Approach to Word Segmentation of Vietnamese Texts</a>, Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Language and Automata Theory and Applications, Tarragona, Spain, 2008</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, A. Roussanaly, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/W08-2317/">A Metagrammar for Vietnamese LTAG</a>, Proceedings of the 9th International Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammars and Related Formalisms (TAG+9), Tubingen, Germany, 2008</li>
            <li>Q. T. Dinh, T. M. H. Nguyen, X. L. Vu, M. Rossignol, P. Le-Hong, C. T. Nguyen, <a href="http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2008/summaries/493.html">Word Segmentation of Vietnamese Texts: a Comparison of Approaches</a>, Proceedings of The Sixth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, Marrakech, Morocco, 2008</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, A. Roussanaly, <a href="https://aclanthology.org/L06-1426/">A Lexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammar for Vietnamese</a>, Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, Genoa, Italy, 2006.</li>
        </ol>
        <h2>Refereed research papers in national conference proceedings</h2>
        <ol>
            <li>T. L. Nguyen, M. L. Ha, P. Le-Hong, T. M. H. Nguyen, "Using Distributed Word Representations in Graph-Based Dependency Parsing for Vietnamese", Proceedings of the 9th National Conference on Fundamental and Applied Information Technology (FAIR'9), Can Tho, Vietnam, 2016.</li>
            <li>M. L. Ha, T. L. Nguyen, V. H. Nguyen, T. M. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, T. H. Phan, "Building a Semantic Role Annotated Corpus for Vietnamese", Proceedings of the 17th National Symposium on Information and Communication Technology, (in Vietnamese), Daklak, Vietnam, 2014.</li>
            <li>T. H. Phan, T. M. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, V. T. Luu, "Building a syntactic annotation framework for Vietnamese", Proceedings of the 3rd National Symposium on Research, Development and Application of Information and Communication Technology, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2008.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, V. H. Nguyen, D. Q. Tong, "On the simulation of a random variable related to the solution of a system of differential equations and its application for the determination of risks caused by floods in Son La hydropower project", Proceedings of the 2nd National Symposium for Applications of Mathematics, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2005.</li>
            <li>P. Le-Hong, V. H. Nguyen, D. Q. Tong, "On the simulation of natural water running into the lakes of a system of cascade hydroelectric power stations on Da river", Proceedings of the 2nd National Symposium for Applications of Mathematics, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2005.</li>
            <li>T. M. H. Nguyen, X. L. Vu, P. Le-Hong, "A case study of the probabilistic tagger QTAG for Tagging Vietnamese Texts", Proceedings of the 1st National Conference ICT RDA, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2003.</li>
        </ol>
    </ui:define>
</ui:composition>
</html>

