<html lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
      xmlns:pm="http://primefaces.org/mobile"
      xmlns:pui="http://primefaces.org/ui">
<f:view renderKitId="PRIMEFACES_MOBILE"/>
<h:head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" text="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>Lê Hồng Phương</title>
</h:head>
<h:body>
    <pm:page id="publications">
        <pm:header title="Lê Hồng Phương"/>
        <pm:content id="publicationsContent">
            <h1>Publications</h1>
            <h2>Patent</h2>
            <ol>
                <li>No. 20428, A Method for Detecting Harmful Domain Names, Vietnam Ministry of Science and Technology, 2019</li>
            </ol>
            <h2>Refereed research papers in journals</h2>
            <ol>
		 <li>P. Le-Hong and E. Cambria, "A Semantics-Aware Approach for Multilingual Natural Language Inference", Language Resources and Evaluation, 2023.</li>
                <li>O. T. Tran, P. Le-Hong, C. T. Luong, "A rich task-oriented dialogue corpus in Vietnamese", Language Resources and Evaluation, 2022.</li>
                <li>P. Le-Hong, "Diacritics Generation and Application in Hate Speech Detection on Vietnamese Social Networks", Knowledge-Based Systems, 2021.</li>
                <li>P. Le-Hong and Hoang Vu D., "A Combined Syntactic-Semantic Embedding Model Based on Lexicalized Tree-Adjoining Grammar", Computer Speech and Language, 2021.  </li>
                <li>T-L. Nguyen, M-L. Ha, T-M-H. Nguyen and P. Le-Hong, "Using BiLSTM in Dependency Parsing for Vietnamese", Computacion y Sistemas, Vol. 22, No. 3, pp. 853-862, 2018.</li>
                <li>T-H. Pham, P. Le-Hong, "Content-based Approach for Vietnamese Spam SMS Filtering", International Journal of Asian Language Processing, Vol. 27, No. 1, pp. 33-45, 2017.</li>
                <li>P. Le-Hong, T-H Pham, X-K Pham, T-M-H Nguyen, T-L Nguyen, M-H Nguyen, "Vietnamese Semantic Role Labeling", VNU Journal of Science: Computer Science and Communication Engineering, Vol. 33, No. 2, pp. 1-21, 2017.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., A. Roussanaly, and T M H. Nguyen, "A Syntactic Component for Vietnamese Language Processing", Journal of Language Modelling, vol. 3, issue 1, pp. 145-184, 2015.</li>
                <li>Phan, T H., T M H. Nguyen, and P. Le-Hong, "Lexicographic study in Sketch Engine", Journal of Computer Science and Cybernetics, vol. 27, issue 3, no. 3, pp. 206-218, 2011.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T M H. Nguyen, P T. Nguyen, and T H. Phan, "Automated extraction of tree-adjoining grammars from a treebank for Vietnamese", Journal of Computer Science and Cybernetics, vol. 26, issue 2, no. 2, pp. 153-172, 2010.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., V H. Nguyen, and D Q. Tong, "Simulating the flow of natural water running into Hoa Binh, Son La, Lai Chau reservoirs", Vietnam Journal of Mathematical Applications, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 47-56, 2008.</li>
                <li>Tran, M N., P. Le-Hong, Q H. Vuong, V H. Nguyen, and G H. Dang, "Statistical methods in development of credit scoring system", Vietnam Journal of Mathematical Applications, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 1-16, 2006.</li>
                <li>Nguyen, V H., and P. Le-Hong, "On the testing of the negative binomial distribution of the number of earthquakes in the South-East Asia area", Vietnam Journal of Mathematical Applications, no. ?, pp. ?, 2005.</li>
            </ol>
            <h2>Refereed research papers in international conference proceedings</h2>
            <ol>
              <li>P. Le-Hong et al., "Multilingual Natural Language Understanding for the FPT.AI Conversational Platform", Proceedings of the 14th IEEE International Conference on Knowledge and Systems Engineering, 2022</li>
                <li>T. V. Bui, O. T. Tran, P. Le-Hong, "Improving Sequence Tagging for Vietnamese Text using Transformer-based Neural Models", Proceedings of PACLIC 2020</li>
                <li>T. V. Bui, P. Le-Hong, "Cross-lingual Extended Named Entity Classification of Wikipedia Articles", Proceedings of NTCIR-15, SHINRA2020-ML, 2020, Tokyo, Japan</li>
                <li>C. T. Luong and P. Le-Hong, "Towards Task-Oriented Dialogue in Mixed Domains", Proceedings of PACLING 2019, Hanoi, Vietnam</li>
                <li>T. L. Nguyen and P. Le-Hong, "An experimental study on constituency parsing for Vietnamese", Proceedings of PACLING 2019, Hanoi, Vietnam</li>
                <li>H. V. Dang, V. H. Nguyen, and P. Le-Hong, "Online Adaptation of Language Models for Speech Recognition, Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Computer Recognition Systems", Poland, Springer, 05/2019.</li>
                <li>P. Le-Hong and Anh-Cuong Le, "A Comparative Study of Neural Network Models for Sentence Classification", Proceedings of the 5th Nafosted Conference on Information and Computer Science (IEEE Explorer), Ho Chi Minh City, 2018.</li>
                <li>T. T. Nguyen, X. L. Vu, and P. Le-Hong, Building Vietnamese Linguistic Resources for Social Network Text Analysis, Proceedings of the 5th Nafosted Conference on Information and Computer Science (IEEE Explorer), Ho Chi Minh City, 2018.</li>
                <li>P. Le-Hong and D-T. Bui, "A Factoid Question Answering System for Vietnamese", Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Hybrid Question Answering with Structured and Unstructured Knowledge, The Web Conference (ACM), Lyon, France, 2018.</li>
                <li>Pham, T-H., X-K. Pham, T-A. Nguyen, and P. Le-Hong, "NNVLP: A Neural Network-Based Vietnamese Language Processing Toolkit", The 8th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (IJCNLP 2017), vol. Demonstration Paper, Taipei, Taiwan, 11/2017.</li>
                <li>Pham, T-H., X-K. Pham, and P. Le-Hong, "On the Use of Machine Translation-Based Approaches for Vietnamese Diacritic Restoration", The 21th International Conference on Asian Language Processing (IALP 2017), Singapore, IEEE, 12/2017.</li>
                <li>P. Le-Hong, Q. N. M. Pham, T. H. Pham, T. A. Tran, D. M. Nguyen, "An Empirical Study of Discriminative Sequence Labeling Models for Vietnamese Text Processing", Knowledge and Systems Engineering (IEEE), Hue City, Vietnam, 10/2017.</li>
                <li>Pham, T-H., and P. Le-Hong, "End-to-end Recurrent Neural Network Models for Vietnamese Named Entity Recognition: Word-level vs. Character-level", PACLING - Conference of the Pacific Association of Computational Linguistics, Yangon, Myanmar, 08/2017.</li>
                <li>Pham, T-H., and P. Le-Hong, "The Importance of Automatic Syntactic Features in Vietnamese Named Entity Recognition", The 31st Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Information and Computation PACLIC 31 (2017), Cebu, Philippines, 11/2017.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., "Vietnamese Named Entity Recognition using Token Regular Expressions and Bidirectional Inference", VLSP NER Evaluation Campaign, 11/2016.</li>
                <li>Pham, H., and P. Le-Hong, "Content-based Approach for Vietnamese Spam SMS Filtering", The 20th International Conference on Asian Language Processing, Tainan, Taiwan, 11/2016.</li>
                <li>Pham, T-H., X-K. Pham, and P. Le-Hong, "Building a Semantic Role Labelling System for Vietnamese", Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Digital Information Management (IEEE), Jeju Islands, South Korea, 10/2015.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T-M-H. Nguyen, T-L. Nguyen, and M-L. Ha, "Fast Dependency Parsing using Distributed Word Representations", Proceedings of PAKDD 2015 Workshops, Trends and Applications in Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, vol. LNAI 9441, HCM City, Vietnam, Springer, 2015.</li>
                <li>Vu, M-C., A-T. Luong, and P. Le-Hong, "Improving Vietnamese Dependency Parsing using Distributed Word Representations", The Sixth International Symposium on Information and Communication Technology, Hue, Vietnam, ACM, 12/2015.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., X-H. Phan, and T-D. Nguyen, "Using Dependency Analysis to Improve Question Classification", The Sixth International Conference on Knowledge and Systems Engineering, vol. 326, Hanoi, Vietnam, Springer-Verlag, pp. 653-665, 10/2014.</li>
                <li>Nguyen, T L., M L. Ha, V H. Nguyen, T M H. Nguyen, and P. Le-Hong, "Building a Treebank for Vietnamese Dependency Parsing", The 10th IEEE RIVF International Conference on Computing and Communication Technologies, Hanoi, Vietnam, IEEE, pp. 147--151, 11/2013.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., X-H. Phan, and T T. Tran, "On the Effect of the Label Bias Problem in Part-of-Speech Tagging", The 10th IEEE RIVF International Conference on Computing and Communication Technologies, Hanoi, Vietnam, IEEE, pp. 103--108, 11/2013.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., and T M H. Nguyen, "Part-of-Speech Induction for Vietnamese", The Fifth International Conference on Knowledge and Systems Engineering (KSE 2013) , vol. 2, Hanoi, Vietnam, Springer-Verlag, pp. 261-272, 10/2013.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T M H. Nguyen, and A. Roussanaly, "Vietnamese parsing with an automatically extracted tree-adjoining grammar", Proceedings of IEEE-RIVF International Conference, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, IEEE, pp. 91--96, 02/2012.</li>
                <li>Kilgarriff, A., and P. Le-Hong, "Vietnamese Word Sketches", Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Vietnamese Language and Speech Processing, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, 2012.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T M H. Nguyen, P T. Nguyen, and A. Roussanaly, "Automated extraction of Tree Adjoining Grammars from a treebank for Vietnamese", Proceedings of The Tenth International Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammars and Related Formalisms (TAG+10), Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA, Linguistics Department, Yale University, pp. 165--173, 06/2010.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T M H. Nguyen, M. Rossignol, and A. Roussanaly, "An empirical study of maximum entropy approach for part-of-speech tagging of Vietnamese texts", Actes du Traitement Automatique des Langues Naturelles (TALN-2010), Montreal, Canada, 2010.</li>
                <li>Nguyen, P T., L V. Xuan, T M H. Nguyen, V H. Nguyen, and P. Le-Hong, "Building a Large Syntactically-Annotated Corpus of Vietnamese", Proceedings of the 3rd Linguistic Annotation Workshop, Singapore, pp. 182--185, 2009.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T M H. Nguyen, and A. Roussanaly, "Finite-State Description of Vietnamese Reduplication", Proceedings of the 7th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, ACL-IJCNLP, Suntec City, Singapore, pp. 63--69, 2009.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T M H. Nguyen, A. Roussanaly, and T V. Ho, "A hybrid approach to word segmentation of Vietnamese texts", Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Language and Automata Theory and Applications, Tarragona, Spain, Springer, LNCS 5196, pp. 240--249, 2008.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T M H. Nguyen, and A. Roussanaly, "A metagrammar for Vietnamese LTAG", Proceedings of The Ninth International Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammars and Related Formalisms (TAG+9), Tubingen, Germany, 2008.</li>
                <li>Dinh, Q T., T M H. Nguyen, X L. Vu, M. Rossignol, P. Le-Hong, and C T. Nguyen, "Word segmentation of Vietnamese texts: a comparison of approaches", Proceedings of The Sixth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, Marrakech, Morocco, 2008.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., T M H. Nguyen, and A. Roussanaly, "A lexicalized tree-adjoining grammar for Vietnamese", Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, 2006.</li>
            </ol>
            <h2>Refereed research papers in national conference proceedings</h2>
            <ol>
                <li>Nguyen, T-L., M-L. Ha, P. Le-Hong, and T-M-H. Nguyen, "Using Distributed Word Representations in Graph-Based Dependency Parsing for Vietnamese", The 9th National Conference on Fundamental and Applied Information Technology (FAIR'9), Can Tho, Vietnam, pp. 804--810, 08/2016.</li>
                <li>My, L. H., L. N. Thi, H N. Viet, T M H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, and T H. Phan, "Building a Semantic Role Annotated Corpus for Vietnamese", The 17th National Symposium on Information and Communication Technology, (in Vietnamese), Daklak, Vietnam, pp. 409-414, 11/2014.</li>
                <li>Phan, T. H., T. M. H. Nguyen, P. Le-Hong, and T L. Van, "Building a syntactic annotation framework for Vietnamese", Proceedings of the Third National Symposium on Research, Development and Application of Information and Communication Technology, Hanoi, Vietnam, pp. 275--281, 2008.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., V H. Nguyen, and D Q. Tong, "On the simulation of a random variable related to the solution of a system of differential equations and its application for the determination of risks caused by floods in Son La hydropower project", Proceedings of the 2nd National Symposium for Applications of Mathematics, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2005.</li>
                <li>Le-Hong, P., V. H. Nguyen, and D Q. Tong, "On the simulation of natural water running into the lakes of a system of cascade hydroelectric power stations on Da river", Proceedings of the 2nd National Symposium for Applications of Mathematics, Hanoi, Vietnam, 2005.</li>
                <li>Nguyen, T. M. H., X. L. Vu, and P. Le-Hong, "A case study of the probabilistic tagger QTAG for Tagging Vietnamese Texts", Proceedings of the 1st National Conference ICT RDA, 2003.</li>
            </ol>
            <h:panelGrid columns="3" layout="grid">
                <h:outputLink value="projects.xhtml">Projects</h:outputLink>
                <h:outputLink value="software.xhtml">Software</h:outputLink>
                <h:outputLink value="publications.xhtml">Publications</h:outputLink>
                <h:outputLink value="teaching.xhtml">Teaching</h:outputLink>
                <h:outputLink value="talks.xhtml">Talks</h:outputLink>
                <h:outputLink value="blog.xhtml">Blog</h:outputLink>
                <h:outputLink value="index.xhtml">phuonglh</h:outputLink>
            </h:panelGrid>
            <h:form>
                <pm:field>
                    <pui:commandButton value="Switch to Desktop Layout" actionListener="#{mobileSwitch.switchTo('WEB')}" ajax="false"/>
                </pm:field>
            </h:form>
        </pm:content>
        <pm:footer title="Copyright 2019 by phuonglh"/>
    </pm:page>
</h:body>
</html>
